## March 11–15, 2024

### WebAssembly from the Ground Up

This week:

- I decided to make a fairly major refactoring to some of the code in the book. In general, one of the things I aim for with all the code in the book is "as simple as possible, but no simpler".

  But there are some parts of the code that start simple, and grow more complex chapter by chapter. For code like that, there is a tradeoff. If it starts as simple as possible, then it may be necessary to do a serious refactoring later in the book — which requires explanation. On the other hand, if the first version that's presented is closer to the final structure that it needs to have, then the code may appear to be needlessly complex.

  Sometimes, we don't the sweet spot. In this case, I decide to refactor the code related to the symbol table. When it's introduced in Chapter 4, it only supports local variables, and doesn't have to deal with nested scopes. But that led to a fairly involved refactor in Chapter 5.

  So: I refactored the code Chapter 4 and 5, making the initial version of the code — formerly a function named `localVars`, now `buildSymbolTable` — closer to its final form.
- With the refactoring complete, Mariano and I gave both chapters an editing pass. Now I've moved on to doing a [table read](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read-through) of Chapter 4: reading prose aloud, cutting and pasting all of the code, and making sure the tests pass.

Next:

- I'm planning on completing the table read for Chapters 4 and 5 on Monday, and hopefully we'll be ready to deploy a new version of the book on Tuesday.
### Other stuff

- On Wednesday I paired with [Dave](https://twitter.com/davidbalbert) on a project of mine: a bytecode interpreter for parsing expression grammars.

  Currently, the in-memory representation used by the interpreter is `Uint8Array[]`, with one entry for each rule in the grammar. Each entry (a `Uint8Array`) holds the bytecode for the rule body.

  This might negate some of the performance benefits of a bytecode interpreter, because it's not as cache friendly as it could be. So, I wanted to change the interpreter to store the bytecode in a single, contiguous `Uint8Array`.

  Initially, I wanted to do this by making rule application (which in PEGs is roughly like a function call) do a direct jump to the beginning of the rule body. But when you're emitting the code for a rule application, you can't always know the final offset of the rule you want to jump to, because rules can be mutually recursive. So, with Dave's help, I came up with a solution: do a second, fixup pass on the bytecode.

  But, after starting on this, I decided to do it differently. I'll use indirection instead: rather than doing a direct jump to the rule body, I'll use a table that maps from ruleIndex → bytecodeOffset.

  Once that's done, I plan to do a more thorough writeup on this project.
### Published

- TIL: [The symtable module in Python](https://github.com/pdubroy/til/blob/main/python/2024-03-14-The-symtable-module.md)

### Watched/read

- [Doing weeknotes](https://doingweeknotes.com/)
- [eBBF: Unlocking the Kernel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wb_vD3XZYOA)
- [BlackBerry](https://letterboxd.com/film/blackberry-2023/)
