## May 6–19

I missed last week and I'm late again this week! Will keep this short as I'm on vacation right now (and there will be no note for this week).

### WebAssembly from the Ground Up

- Finished the first draft of the chapter I've been working on ("Comparisons, Conditionals, and Loops"). Now I'm doing an editing pass. Since I've got another main project on the go, I'm trying to do an hour a day on the book to keep up the momentum.

### RustNL

- Last week I was in Delft for RustNL. It was fun — met some nice people and saw some cool talks. Some highlights:

    * Rik Arends' Makepad demo
    * Dario Nieuwenhuis on Async Rust in embedded systems with Embassy
    * Raph Levien on Xilem and high-performance Rust UI

    There were also some interesting WebAssembly-related tidbits:

    * [Stitch](https://crates.io/crates/makepad-stitch) is a lightweight WebAssembly interpreter from the Makepad team.
    * Jonas Kruckenberg talked about K23, his Wasm-based microkernel OS.

### Other stuff

- Between the talks at RustNL, I made some more progress on my 3D rasterizer. I'm working on [Chapter 11: Clipping](https://gabrielgambetta.com/computer-graphics-from-scratch/11-clipping.html). Haven't touched this since the flight back from Amsterdam though.

- For my main (work) project, we've started working with Python and NumPy. It's fun to be writing Python again, and learning NumPy is certainly eye-opening. Makes me wish I'd gone a bit further with APL when I was playing with it a couple of years ago. :-)

### Published

- [TIL: Rye & Poetry](https://github.com/pdubroy/til/blob/main/python/2024-05-16-Rye-and-Poetry.md)
- [TIL: Corner plot](https://github.com/pdubroy/til/blob/main/concepts/2024-05-10-Corner-plot.md)
