## April 6–12, 2024

### WebAssembly from the Ground Up

- At the beginning of the week, I continued working on the chapter that's currently titled "Global variables and imports". By Tuesday, I had finished the content on imports: how imports work in WebAssembly, and implementing imports in the Wafer (the language we create in the book).

  At that point, rather than moving on to globals, I started having second thoughts about the chapter order. The previous chapter ("Functions") is pretty heavy on the compiler aspects, and "Global variables and imports" feels like it continues in the same vein.

  Instead, I wonder if the chapter after "Functions" should be a more Wasm-heavy one — for example, we have a draft chapter on "Comparisons, Conditionals, and Loops". If we put that chapter after "Functions", then we wouldn't have two chapters in a row that are relatively light on WebAssembly and heavy on compiler stuff.

  So, for the rest of the week, I worked on adding the Ohm-related content to the "Comparisons, Conditionals, and Loops" chapter. Once that's done, we'll have the content for both chapters mostly complete, and it will be easier to decide what the best order is. But I'm thinking we'll put that chapter after "Functions".

- While working on those chapters, I was reminded of a couple limitations with the code in the book — things we should fix at some point, but it's not clear when.

  The first is that we assume that all functions return an `i32`. This makes sense as a simplifying assumption when we introduce functions, but it would be nice to relax this at some point. What I'm not sure about yet is _how_ we should address this. We could implement a simple type checker. But, in the process of writing this note, I also realized that we could just rely on WebAssembly's type checking. In Wafer, we can implement syntax for function return types, and if there's a type error, it will be caught when the module is instantiated. It's not exactly a great developer experience, but it's probably good enough for the purposes of the book.

  The other issue is the way that keywords are handled in Wafer. We currently just use terminals, like this:

      LetStatement = "let" identifier "=" Expr ";"

  But this can cause bugs, as identifiers that begin with a keyword — like "letter" — can be parsed incorrectly. In Ohm, it's best to always define a separate rule for keywords, e.g.:

      let = "let" ~identifierPart

  Anyways, we need to decide if we should do this correctly from the beginning, or refactor it later in the book. TBD.

### Other stuff

- I've continued to work on geometry and graphics, and have decided to work through [Computer Graphics from Scratch](https://gabrielgambetta.com/computer-graphics-from-scratch/) in Rust. I'm more interested in interactive graphics than raycasting, so I'm starting with Part II (Rasterization).

  Something I like about the book is that all the code is presented as pseudocode. I find the process of translating it to Rust makes me think about the code more deeply than I would if I could just cut and paste it. And if I run into bugs that I can't figure out, there are links to live demos in JavaScript — a kind of "answer key" that takes a bit of effort to get to.

- In addition to studying geometry and graphics, I'm also trying to refresh and update my Rust knowledge! I did spend a few months working in Rust back in late 2018, but I've forgotten most of what I knew then. Working through _Computer Graphics from Scratch_ in Rust is proving to be a great refresher.

  And as I've been working, I've kept [Programming Rust](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/programming-rust-2nd/9781492052586/) close at hand. It's been really helpful whenever I need a bit more detail on some part of Rust that I'm confused about. (Thank [@thorstenball][] for gifting me your copy!)

  [@thorstenball]: https://twitter.com/thorstenball

- Had a great chat with Chris from [objc.io](https://www.objc.io/). I picked up their book [Thinking in SwiftUI](https://www.objc.io/books/thinking-in-swiftui/) a few months ago after Dave Albert recommended it. I've been really inspired by all the stuff they produce — for me they really set the bar for high-quality technical content. So it was nice to hear some of the back story from Chris, and he had some great suggestions for things we could do for our book.

- Spent about 90 mins pairing with Kevin L. again, this time reading through some code from [soypat's Go SDF library](https://github.com/soypat/sdf). I don't have much experience with SDFs (or with Go), but this helped me better understand how they work at a practical level.
