## April 27 – May 3, 2024

I'm writing these a bit late again this week. Originally, my plan was to write them on Fridays, but it seems a bit easier for me to write them on Saturday or Sunday.

### Published

- Blog post: [Bytecode VMs in surprising places](https://dubroy.com/blog/bytecode-vms-in-surprising-places/).

  Most people probably associate bytecode VMs with general-purpose programming languages, like JavaScript or Python. But sometimes they appear in surprising places!

  This post ended up [on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40211205), and from the comments I learned about a few other examples — e.g., TrueType and the Python pickle format.

- Some reflections on blogging…late last year, I decided that I wanted to blog more. Since then, I've managed a five-month streak of publishing a post per month. Not bad! I hope I can keep this up for the rest of the year.

  I also realized that out my last ten blog posts, seven have gone to the front page of Hacker News. It's definitely not the most important metric, but it's a nice sign that the stuff I'm writing is resonating with people. 😊

### WebAssembly from the Ground Up

- Finally committed to the chapter reordering — so after Chapter 6 ("Functions"), the next chapter will be "Comparisons, Conditionals, and Loops". I made a bit more progress on the Ohm-related content for that chapter.

### Other stuff

- I finally finished the next chapter of _Computer Graphics from Scratch_: [Describing and rendering a scene](https://gabrielgambetta.com/computer-graphics-from-scratch/10-describing-and-rendering-a-scene.html). This chapter was a bit tougher than the previous chapters. It required quite a bit of math-heavy code — basically, writing a small linear algebra library. Obviously I could have used something off-the-shelf like [glam](https://docs.rs/glam/latest/glam/) or [cgmath](https://docs.rs/cgmath/latest/cgmath/), but I thought it would be useful to write this stuff myself. And boy was that true.
