## March 16–22, 2024

### Ohm

- Someone on Discord asked about the current status of our ES6 grammar. About two years ago, I had started work on automatically producing Ohm grammars from the ECMAScript spec. I never finished this work, but luckily, someone in the community eventually picked it up and brought it to a decent state (see [#451](https://github.com/ohmjs/ohm/pull/451)). However, I never published a new version of the [`ohm-grammar-ecmascript` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ohm-grammar-ecmascript).

  So, on Sunday I spent some time paging in the context, and then cleaning things up. I decided to move all the new grammars into a new package: [`@ohm-js/es-grammars`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ohm-js/es-grammars). I'm not actually sure how correct the grammars are yet, but I figured I might as well publish v1 so that people can try them out and we can find the bugs.

  When I created the new package, I had to think about whether to make it ESM-only or not. Boy, is this confusing and complicated. I took a quick look at the [Pure ESM package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c) FAQ (1k words) by Sindre Sorhus, and then read [Stop publishing ESM-only packages, do this instead](https://blog.devgenius.io/stop-publishing-esm-only-packages-do-this-instead-8488c1a289ab) (1200 words) and decided that I really didn't want to think about it anymore.

### WebAssembly from the Ground Up

- I did a bunch more refactoring to the code in the book, primarily working on Chapter 5: Functions. Mainly, I wanted to make sure that when we add features in later chapters (e.g., imports, global variables) that we don't need to do too much refactoring to code that was written in earlier chapters.

  I also continued the deep "table read" that I started last week — finishing off chapter 4 and 5. Along the way, I discovered and fixed quite a few minor issues. Proofreading the book in this way was quite time-consuming, but I'm pretty glad I did it!

- The final issue we need to resolve is what to do about the tests. Currently, the code in the book works as follows:

  - All code for each chapter — implementation and tests — goes into the same source file.
  - Each chapter imports a bunch of stuff from the previous one.

  This is (hopefully) a simple mental model for readers: in a given chapter, you're always updating or appending to a single file. And over the course of the book, we're building up a single namespace.

  Putting implementation and tests in the same file is not the typical approach in JavaScript projects, though it is common in some other languages (e.g. Rust). [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/guide/in-source) does have special support for this style of "in-source testing", but we're trying to minimize dependencies, so we currently rely on the Node's built-in test runner.

  The problem is that if you want to run the tests for a given chapter, you could run something like `node --test chapter03.js`, but since that imports from all the previous chapters, and you don't want to run **all** the tests for all the chapters.

  We managed to find what is (I hope) a good solution for this, and are ready to publish the latest version of the book next week.

Next:

- Deploy the latest version and announce it everywhere.

### Other stuff

- On Monday, I ran the final session on Scratch at my kids' school. I wrote a bit about this in a blog post ([Thoughts on Scratch](https://dubroy.com/blog/thoughts-on-scratch/)) but the short story is: for the past 10 weeks, I've been teaching a 90-minute, once-a-week course on Scratch at the Montessori school that my kids go to.

  I feel like the first session (Jan to mid-Feb) was a bit more successful than the current session, but I had at least one kid who told me, "At first I wasn't really interested in programming, I just wanted to play the games…but now I only want to program." So that was nice. 😊

  I'm taking a break for now, but will probably run another session later in the year. But I've had a blast learning Scratch, and it's been fun working with the kids!

- On Wednesday I paired with [Dave](https://twitter.com/davidbalbert) on my little bytecode interpreter for parsing expression grammars: https://github.com/pdubroy/pegboard. My goal was to implement a single, contiguous array of bytecode for all the rules, rather than an array of arrays (i.e., a `Uint8Array`, not `Uint8Array[]`.

  Previously, my interpreter loop was detecting when it had reached the end of a rule body by checking `ip >= currentRule.length`. My new plan was to encode the length of each rule body directly in the bytecode. But Dave had a better idea — use an explicit `END` or `RETURN` opcode. (Seems obvious in retrospect and I felt dumb for not thinking to do it that way.)

  We were able to get this working fairly quickly. Then we took the memoization step, and refactored that into a separate `MEMOIZE` opcode. Together, this allowed me to simplify core interpreter loop pretty significantly — it's now a single, flat `while` loop, rather than nested loops.

  The refactoring didn't make much (if any) difference to performance. The AST interpreter is still ~2x faster than the bytecode interpreter, which was interesting since I'd heard that "everyone knows that bytecode interpreters are faster."

  (See [AST vs. Bytecode: Interpreters in the Age of Meta-Compilation](https://stefan-marr.de/papers/oopsla-larose-et-al-ast-vs-bytecode-interpreters-in-the-age-of-meta-compilation/) for more on this.)

  Next week, I hope to write up something on my blog about this project.
